# Fire-Alarm-System
# Abstract
The use of fire Alarm System for Security has become a necessity in every office and in every work field. So, we thought of creating a fire alarms system but this time by using an IC. As we were learning about ICs in our Digital Logic Design lab so we thought why don’t we do a research about it. We searched that (can fire alarms systems be made using an IC?) and we started working on it.
In our project we have used a 10K thermistor(NTC). This is the main component of our project and its purpose is that when the temperature increases/rises the resistance of this thermistor decreases (the working of NTC thermistor). We have used a potentiometer of 10Kohm and it purpose is to divide the voltage output. When the temperature increases its (thermistor) resistance decreases the output of the voltage divider (POT) will increase and its output will be given to LM358s (IC) non-inverting input (pin 2). As the LM358 is a dual operational amplifier it would operate in a comparator mode in this project. The input signals will be applied to the inverting terminals and on the other hand non-inverting terminals will be compared to produce output. The output of non-inverting terminals will be high. So the operational amplifier will become high and the buzzer will make a sound. In our simulation we have attached an LED too so that we would know that when the buzzer will make a sound the LED would turn on and vice versa.
# Over view
Our project is about detecting a fire as mentioned in the Name Fire Alarm system. We have used a 10k NTC thermistor which is the main component of our system. A 4.7Kohm resistor. A Potentiometer of 10Kohm which will act as a voltage divider. A LM358 which is dual operational amplifier and its input signals will be applied to inverting terminals whereas the non-inverting terminals will be compared to generate an output. The output of Potentiometer is connected with the non-inverting inputs of the IC LM358. From (pin number 2). Pin 3 is used to divide the resistor and thermistor, pin 8 as VCC and pin 4 as GROUND. Pin 1 is used as an output which is connected to the one input to the buzzer the other input of the buzzer is connected to GROUND. And according to the rise in temperature the buzzer will make a sound e.g. in case of smoke and fire it would detect it and make a sound.
# Future recomendation
•	Now days fire security alarms/system usage has been spreading rapidly around the world. Before it was not considered important but, today people around the world consider it as an essential source for their safety of life. As the technology is advancing so its sources too. If we talk about fire alarms the fire alarms of the future should have the capability of providing better information to fire departments and other occupants. With these developing technology fire alarm combining with other equipment’s like, mass notification and security will help to reduce cost and would also help for better life safety for people through technology.
•	These alarms will help to change the style/nature of the buildings as they will integrate with the building automation system which will provide protection for the urban buildings so that it may be suitable for both the residential and commercial buildings.
